docs: add sui move 2024 conventions (#15955)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/concepts/sui-move-concepts/conventions.mdx

## Potato Structs

#### Do not call structs as Potato. It is a pattern recognized by the lack of abilities.

```move
module conventions::request {
  // ✅ Right
  struct Request {}

  // ❌ Wrong
  struct RequestPotato {}
}
```

## Read Functions

#### Be mindful of the dot syntax when naming functions. Avoid using the object name on function names.

```move
module conventions::lib {
  struct Profile {
    age: u64
  }

  // ✅ Right
  public fun age(self: &Profile):  u64 {
    self.age
  }

  // ❌ Wrong
  public fun profile_age(self: &Profile): u64 {
    self.age
  }
}

module conventions::lib {
  use conventions::lib::{Self, Profile};

  public fun get_tokens(profile: &Profile) {

  // ✅ Right
  let name = profile.age();

  // ❌ Wrong
  let name2 = profile.profile_age();
}
```
## Empty Function

#### Functions that create data structures must be called empty.

```move
module conventions::data_structure {
  struct DataStructure has copy, drop, store {
    bits: vector<u8>
  }

  public fun empty(): DataStructure {}
}
```
## New Function

#### Functions that create objects must be called new.

```move
module conventions::object {
  struct Object has key, store {
    id: UID
  }

>   public fun new(ctx:&mut TxContext): Object {}

Reviewer: Would be great to make it either compile or mark that there's a missing implementation.

Suggestions:
```
public fun new(ctx: &mut TxContext): Object {  /* ... */ }

public fun new(ctx: &mut TxContext): Object {
  abort ENotImplemented
}
```

}
```

## Shared Objects

> #### Shared objects must be created via a new function and be shared in a separate function. The share function must be named share.

Reviewer: Can you illustrate it better? Using a "must" while not giving an explanation seems odd. I would only split these two if there's a need to mutate the object before it is shared.

```move
module conventions::profile {
  struct Profile has key {
    id: UID
  }

  public fun new(ctx:&mut TxContext): Profile {}

  public fun share(profile: Profile) {}
}
```

## Reference Functions

#### Functions that return a reference must be named property_name_mut or property_name_immut. The borrow is implied by the mut and immut.

```move
module conventions::profile {
  struct Profile has key {
    id: UID,
    name: String,
    age: u8
  }

  // profile.name_immut()
  public fun name_immut(self: &Profile): &String {}

  // profile.age_mut()
  public fun age_mut(self: &mut Profile): &mut u8 {}
}
```

## Separation of Concerns

#### Modules must be designed around one Object or Data Structure. A variant structure should have its own module to avoid complexity and bugs.

```move
module conventions::wallet {
  struct Wallet has key, store {
    id: UID,
    amount: u64
  }
}

module conventions::claw_back_wallet {
  struct Wallet has key {
    id: UID,
    amount: u64
  }
}
```

## Errors

> #### Errors must be CamelCase, start with an E and be descriptive.

Reviewer: Just speculating and dreaming - I wish we adopted "ECamelCase" term 😆 
But I haven't seen anyone use it.

Author: Well, it will be a thing now :)

```move
module conventions::errors {
  // ✅ Right
  const ENameHasMaxLengthOf64Chars: u64 = 0;

  // ❌ Wrong
  const INVALID_NAME: u64 = 0;
}
```

## Struct Property Comments

#### Describe the properties of your structs.

```move
module conventions::profile {
  struct Profile has key, store {
    id: UID,

>     // The age of the user

Reviewer: Should be a doc comment: `///`

    age: u8,
    // The first name of the user
    name: String
  }
}
```

## Destroy Functions

#### Provide functions to delete objects and structs. Empty objects must be destroyed with the function destroy_empty. The function drop must be used for objects that have types that can be dropped.

```move
module conventions::wallet {
  struct Wallet<Value> {
    id: UID,
    value: Value
  }

  // Value has drop

>   public fun drop<Value: drop>(wallet: &mut Wallet<Value>) {}

Reviewer: This line doesn't make much sense to me. Even if the `Value` has drop, what would this function do given that it takes a mutable reference?

  // Value doesn't have drop
  // Does NOT throw if the `wallet` is not empty.

>   public fun destroy<Value>(wallet: &mut Wallet<Value>) {}

Reviewer: Similarly - perhaps, pass by value?

  // Value doesn't have drop
  // Throws if the `wallet` is not empty.

>   public fun destroy_empty<Value>(wallet: &mut Wallet<Value>) {}

Reviewer: I think I see the point you're making here, but the example you gave may not be the best one. Destroy empty is a necessity for droppable collection types if the value doesn't have drop. Here Wallet is not droppable and not a collection.

  // ✅ Right
  public fun add_liquidity_and_transfer<CoinX, CoinY, LP_Coin>(pool: &mut Pool, coin_x: Coin<CoinX>, coin_y: Coin<CoinY>, recipient: address) {
    let (lp_coin, coin_x, coin_y) = add_liquidity(pool, coin_x, coin_y);
    transfer::public_transfer(lp_coin, recipient);
    transfer::public_transfer(coin_x, recipient);
    transfer::public_transfer(coin_y, recipient);
  }

  // ❌ Wrong
  public fun add_liquidity<CoinX, CoinY, LP_Coin>(pool: &mut Pool, coin_x: Coin<CoinX>, coin_y: Coin<CoinY>, ctx: &mut TxContext): Coin<LpCoin> {
    transfer::public_transfer(coin_x, tx_context::sender(ctx));
    transfer::public_transfer(coin_y, tx_context::sender(ctx));

    coin_lp
  }
}
```

## Coin argument

#### Pass the Coin by value with the right amount directly, it's better for transaction readability from the frontend.

```move
module conventions::amm {
  struct Pool has key {
    id: UID
  }

  // ✅ Right
  public fun swap<CoinX, CoinY>(coin_in: Coin<CoinX>): Coin<CoinY> {}

  // ❌ Wrong
  public fun swap<CoinX, CoinY>(coin_in: &mut Coin<CoinX>): Coin<CoinY> {}
}
```

## Account Information

> #### To maintain composability, do not store the user's account data in a hashmap - e.g. (Table/Bag/VecSet). Create an object and return it to the user. Moreover, parallelization on Sui depends on objects so it's always a good idea to split the app state to a maximum.

Reviewer: I don't think it should be that restrictive. Many applications would want to keep access to user data so they can mutate it. However, this line of thinking leads to two different points:

1. Don't perform authorization based on address, use capability (perhaps, worth making a separate section?)
2. If there's user data that doesn't need to be managed in a centralized fashion, it's better to store it in an owned object.

Author: We should break down into two sections!

---
title: Conventions
description: Recommended Sui Move 2024 best practices
---

The recommendations below are based on 2024 Move.

## Add section titles

```move
module conventions::comments {
  // === Imports ===

  // === Friends ===

  // === Errors ===

  // === Constants ===

  // === Structs ===

  // === Public-Mutative Functions ===

  // === Public-View Functions ===

  // === Admin Functions ===

  // === Public-Friend Functions ===

  // === Private Functions ===

  // === Test Functions ===
}
```

## CRUD functions names

> 

Reviewer 2: Could use some content here, too. Maybe "These are the available CRUD functions:"

- `add`: Adds a value.
- `new`: Creates an object.
- `drop`: Drops a struct.
- `empty`: Creates a struct.
- `remove`: Removes a value.
- `exists_`: Checks if a key exists.
- `contains`: Checks if a collection contains a value.
- `destroy_empty`: Destroys an object or data structure that has values with the **drop** ability.
- `to_object_name`: Transforms an Object X to Object Y.
- `from_object_name`: Transforms an Object Y to Object X.
- `property_name`: Returns an immutable reference or a copy.
- `property_name_mut`: Returns a mutable reference.

> ## Potato Structs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Potato structs
```

> Do not call structs as Potato. It is a pattern recognized by the lack of abilities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Do use 'potato' in the name of structs. The lack of abilities define it as a potato pattern.
```

```move
module conventions::request {
  // ✅ Right
  struct Request {}

  // ❌ Wrong
  struct RequestPotato {}
}
```

> ## Read Functions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Read functions
```

Be mindful of the dot syntax when naming functions. Avoid using the object name on function names.

```move
module conventions::lib {

  struct Profile {
    age: u64
  }

  // ✅ Right
  public fun age(self: &Profile):  u64 {
    self.age
  }

  // ❌ Wrong
  public fun profile_age(self: &Profile): u64 {
    self.age
  }
}

module conventions::defi {

  use conventions::lib::{Self, Profile};

  public fun get_tokens(profile: &Profile) {

  // ✅ Right
  let name = profile.age();

  // ❌ Wrong
  let name2 = profile.profile_age();
}
```

> ## Empty Function

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Empty function
```

> Functions that create data structures must be called empty.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Name the functions that create data structures as `empty`.
```

```move
module conventions::collection {

  struct Collection has copy, drop, store {
    bits: vector<u8>
  }

  public fun empty(): Collection {
    Collection {
      bits: vector[]
    }
  }
}
```

> ## New Function

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## New function
```

> Functions that create objects must be called new.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Name the functions that create objects as `new`.
```

```move
module conventions::object {

  use sui::object::{Self, UID};
  use sui::tx_context::TxContext;

  struct Object has key, store {
    id: UID
  }

  public fun new(ctx:&mut TxContext): Object {
    Object {
      id: object::new(ctx)
    }
  }
}
```

> ## Shared Objects

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Shared objects
```

Library modules that share objects should provide two functions: one to create the object and another to share it. It allows the caller to access its UID and run custom functionality before sharing it.

```move
module conventions::profile {

  use sui::object::{Self, UID};
  use sui::tx_context::TxContext;
  use sui::transfer::share_object;

  struct Profile has key {
    id: UID
  }

  public fun new(ctx:&mut TxContext): Profile {
    Profile {
      id: object::new(ctx)
    }
  }

  public fun share(profile: Profile) {
    share_object(profile);
  }
}
```

> ## Reference Functions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Reference functions
```

> Functions that return a reference must be named property_name_mut or property_name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Name the functions that return a reference as `<PROPERTY-NAME>_mut` or `<PROPERTY-NAME>`, replacing <PROPERTY-NAME> with the actual name of the property.
```

```move
module conventions::profile {

  use std::string::String;

  use sui::object::UID;

  struct Profile has key {
    id: UID,
    name: String,
    age: u8
  }

  // profile.name()
  public fun name(self: &Profile): &String {
    &self.name
  }

  // profile.age_mut()
  public fun age_mut(self: &mut Profile): &mut u8 {
    &mut self.age
  }
}
```

> ## Separation of Concerns

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Separation of concerns
```

> Modules must be designed around one Object or Data Structure. A variant structure should have its own module to avoid complexity and bugs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Design your modules around one object or data structure. A variant structure should have its own module to avoid complexity and bugs.
```

```move
module conventions::wallet {

  use sui::object::UID;

  struct Wallet has key, store {
    id: UID,
    amount: u64
  }
}

module conventions::claw_back_wallet {

  use sui::object::UID;

  struct Wallet has key {
    id: UID,
    amount: u64
  }
}
```

## Errors

> Errors must be CamelCase, start with an E and be descriptive.

Author: oooops

```move
module conventions::errors {
  // ✅ Right
  const ENameHasMaxLengthOf64Chars: u64 = 0;

  // ❌ Wrong
  const INVALID_NAME: u64 = 0;
}
```

> ## Struct Property Comments

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Struct property comments
```

Describe the properties of your structs.

```move
module conventions::profile {

  use std::string::String;

  use sui::object::UID;

  struct Profile has key, store {
    id: UID,
    /// The age of the user
    age: u8,
    /// The first name of the user
    name: String
  }
}
```

> ## Destroy Functions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Destroy functions
```

> Provide functions to delete objects. Empty objects must be destroyed with the function destroy_empty. The function drop must be used for objects that have types that can be dropped.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Provide functions to delete objects. Destroy empty objects with the function `destroy_empty`. Use the function `drop` for objects that have types that can be dropped.
```

```move
module conventions::wallet {

  use sui::object::{Self, UID};
  use sui::balance::{Self, Balance};
  use sui::sui::SUI;

  struct Wallet<Value> has key, store {
    id: UID,
    value: Value
  }

  // Value has drop
  public fun drop<Value: drop>(self: Wallet<Value>) {
    let Wallet { id, value: _ } = self;
    object::delete(id);
  }

  // Value doesn't have drop
  // Throws if the `wallet.value` is not empty.
  public fun destroy_empty(self: Wallet<Balance<SUI>>) {
    let Wallet { id, value } = self;
    object::delete(id);
    balance::destroy_zero(value);
  }
}
```

> ## Pure Functions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Pure functions
```

> Keep your functions pure to maintain composability. Do not use transfer::transfer or transfer::public_transfer inside core functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Keep your functions pure to maintain composability. Do not use `transfer::transfer` or `transfer::public_transfer` inside core functions.
```

  use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};

  struct Pool has key {
    id: UID
  }

  // ✅ Right
  // Return the excess coins even if they have zero value.
  public fun add_liquidity<CoinX, CoinY, LpCoin>(pool: &mut Pool, coin_x: Coin<CoinX>, coin_y: Coin<CoinY>): (Coin<LpCoin>, Coin<CoinX>, Coin<CoinY>) {
    // Implementation omitted.
    abort(0)
  }

  // ✅ Right
  public fun add_liquidity_and_transfer<CoinX, CoinY, LpCoin>(pool: &mut Pool, coin_x: Coin<CoinX>, coin_y: Coin<CoinY>, recipient: address) {
    let (lp_coin, coin_x, coin_y) = add_liquidity<CoinX, CoinY, LpCoin>(pool, coin_x, coin_y);
    transfer::public_transfer(lp_coin, recipient);
    transfer::public_transfer(coin_x, recipient);
    transfer::public_transfer(coin_y, recipient);
  }

  // ❌ Wrong
  public fun impure_add_liquidity<CoinX, CoinY, LpCoin>(pool: &mut Pool, coin_x: Coin<CoinX>, coin_y: Coin<CoinY>, ctx: &mut TxContext): Coin<LpCoin> {
    let (lp_coin, coin_x, coin_y) = add_liquidity<CoinX, CoinY, LpCoin>(pool, coin_x, coin_y);
    transfer::public_transfer(coin_x, tx_context::sender(ctx));
    transfer::public_transfer(coin_y, tx_context::sender(ctx));

    lp_coin
  }
}
```

## Coin argument

> Pass the Coin by value with the right amount directly, it's better for transaction readability from the frontend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pass the `Coin` object by value with the right amount directly because it's better for transaction readability from the frontend.
```

```move
module conventions::amm {

  use sui::coin::Coin;
  use sui::object::UID;

  struct Pool has key {
    id: UID
  }

  // ✅ Right
  public fun swap<CoinX, CoinY>(coin_in: Coin<CoinX>): Coin<CoinY> {
    // Implementation omitted.
    abort(0)
  }

  // ❌ Wrong
  public fun exchange<CoinX, CoinY>(coin_in: &mut Coin<CoinX>): Coin<CoinY> {
    // Implementation omitted.
    abort(0)
  }
}
```

> ## Access Control

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Access control
```

To maintain composability, use capabilities instead of addresses for access control.

```move
module conventions::access_control {

  use sui::sui::SUI;
  use sui::object::UID;
  use sui::balance::Balance;
  use sui::coin::{Self, Coin};
  use sui::table::{Self, Table};
  use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};

  struct Account has key, store {
    id: UID,
    balance: u64
  }

  struct State has key {
    id: UID,
    accounts: Table<address, u64>,
    balance: Balance<SUI>
  }

  // ✅ Right
  // With this function, another protocol can hold the `Account` on behalf of a user.
  public fun withdraw(state: &mut State, account: &mut Account, ctx: &mut TxContext): Coin<SUI> {
    let authorized_balance = account.balance;

    account.balance = 0;

    coin::take(&mut state.balance, authorized_balance, ctx)
  }

  // ❌ Wrong
  // This is less composable.
  public fun wrong_withdraw(state: &mut State, ctx: &mut TxContext): Coin<SUI> {
    let sender = tx_context::sender(ctx);

    let authorized_balance = table::borrow_mut(&mut state.accounts, sender);
    let value = *authorized_balance;
    *authorized_balance = 0;
    coin::take(&mut state.balance, value, ctx)
  }
}
```

> ## Data Storage in Owned vs Shared Objects

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Data storage in owned vs shared objects
```

> If your dApp data has a one to one relationship, we recommend to use Owned Objects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your dApp data has a one to one relationship, it's best to use owned objects.
```

```move
module conventions::vesting_wallet {

  use sui::sui::SUI;
  use sui::coin::Coin;
  use sui::object::UID;
  use sui::table::Table;
  use sui::balance::Balance;
  use sui::tx_context::TxContext;

  struct OwnedWallet has key {
    id: UID,
    balance: Balance<SUI>
  }

  struct SharedWallet has key {
    id: UID,
    balance: Balance<SUI>,
    accounts: Table<address, u64>
  }

  /*
  * A vesting wallet releases a certain amount of coin over a period of time.

>   * If the entire balance belongs to one user and the wallet has no additional functionalities, it is best to store it in an Owned Object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * If the entire balance belongs to one user and the wallet has no additional functionalities, it is best to store it in an owned object.
```

  */
  public fun new(deposit: Coin<SUI>, ctx: &mut TxContext): OwnedWallet {
    // Implementation omitted.
    abort(0)
  }

  /*
  * If you wish to add extra functionality to a vesting wallet, it is best to share the object.
  * For example, if you wish the issuer of the wallet to be able to cancel the contract in the future.
  */
  public fun new_shared(deposit: Coin<SUI>, ctx: &mut TxContext) {
    // Implementation omitted.
    // It shares the `SharedWallet`.
    abort(0)
  }
}
```

> ## Admin Capability

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Admin capability
```

## Add section titles

Use titles in code comments to create sections for your Move code files. Structure your titles using `===` on either side of the title.

```move
module conventions::comments {
  // === Imports ===

  // === Friends ===

  // === Errors ===

  // === Constants ===

  // === Structs ===

  // === Public-Mutative Functions ===

  // === Public-View Functions ===

  // === Admin Functions ===

  // === Public-Friend Functions ===

  // === Private Functions ===

  // === Test Functions ===
}
```

## CRUD functions names

These are the available CRUD functions:

- `add`: Adds a value.
- `new`: Creates an object.
- `drop`: Drops a struct.
- `empty`: Creates a struct.
- `remove`: Removes a value.
- `exists_`: Checks if a key exists.
- `contains`: Checks if a collection contains a value.
- `destroy_empty`: Destroys an object or data structure that has values with the **drop** ability.
- `to_object_name`: Transforms an Object X to Object Y.
- `from_object_name`: Transforms an Object Y to Object X.
- `property_name`: Returns an immutable reference or a copy.
- `property_name_mut`: Returns a mutable reference.

## Potato structs

> Do use 'potato' in the name of structs. The lack of abilities define it as a potato pattern.

Reviewer: I believe this was a typo in @ronny-mysten's review. The text should still say `don't`.

Author: ooooops
